Fixed Wing Loiter Modes - Orbit and Figure 8 (#26194)
PX4/PX4-Autopilot: docs/en/flight_modes_fw/hold.md

The _Hold_ flight mode causes the vehicle to loiter (circle) around its current GPS position and maintain its current altitude.

> There are also a number of [Loiter modes](#loiter-modes), such as figure 8 loiter, that can be run from within Hold mode.

Reviewer: This is a bit confusing, as it implies that Hold mode must be entered first before a Figure-8 can be triggered. If all of these behaviors fall under *Hold*, it would be clearer to describe Hold as having multiple variants, with the QGC button triggering the default loiter variant.

:::

## Loiter modes

### Default Loiter

The default loiter mode is entered when you switch to Hold mode without explicitly specifying a loiter behaviour.

The aircraft circles around the GPS hold position at the current altitude and with the radius [NAV_LOITER_RAD](#NAV_LOITER_RAD)
The vehicle will first ascend to [NAV_MIN_LTR_ALT](#NAV_MIN_LTR_ALT) if the mode is engaged below this altitude.

RC stick movement is ignored.

### Orbit Loiter Mode

<Badge type="tip" text="PX4 v1.12)" />

Orbit loiter mode allows you to set a position that the vehicle travels to, and then orbits following a circular path.

> Unlike the "default loiter" hold mode, the sticks can be used to control the radius and the velocity.

Author: The https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#MAV_CMD_DO_ORBIT command allows you to control the radius of loiter and the speed and direction of loiter. On MC you can do this using both sticks and via the Mavlink command.

In theory FW should allow the radius to be set by sticks and might allow some control over the speed (within limits), and direction. What does it actually respect from MAVLink and the sticks?
I.e. it might be this line is wrong - all you can do is set the centre point and loiter radius  via mavlink, and sticks are ignored.

@sfuhrer @KonradRudin ?

Reviewer 2: @ttechnick , the MC Orbit flight mode is a semi-manual mode that still makes use of stick inputs for orbit diameter (pitch stick), speed (roll stick), altitude (throttle) and yaw (yaw). All that is not possible for FW. The only thing MC and FW share is the MAVLink message's position and orbit diameter.

This behaviour can be accessed in QGroundControl by clicking on the map in Fly mode, and selecting **Orbit at Location**.

The behavior can be triggered using the MAVLink [MAV_CMD_DO_ORBIT](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#MAV_CMD_DO_ORBIT) command and tracked using the [ORBIT_EXECUTION_STATUS](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#ORBIT_EXECUTION_STATUS) message.

::: info
Unlike MC vehicle, which have a distinct "Orbit Mode", Fixed-Wing vehicles orbit within the hold mode.
:::

### Figure 8 Loiter Mode

<Badge type="tip" text="PX4 v1.15)" /> <Badge type="warning" text="Experimental" />

> Figure 8 loiter mode allows you to loiter the vehicle in a figure 8 path, as defined by the radius of two circles.

Author: Same question here for Loiter mode as above https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/pull/26194/files#r2656739145

What parameters in the https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#MAV_CMD_DO_FIGURE_EIGHT command are respected, and is there any control over the movement via sticks?

The feature is experimental and can be enabled by setting the `CONFIG_FIGURE_OF_EIGHT` key in the [PX4 board configuration](../hardware/porting_guide_config.md#px4-board-configuration-kconfig) for your board and rebuilding.
For example, this is enabled on the [default.px4board](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/boards/auterion/fmu-v6s/default.px4board#L46) file for the `auterion/fmu-v6s` board.

The mode can also be triggered using the MAVLink [MAV_CMD_DO_FIGURE_EIGHT](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#MAV_CMD_DO_FIGURE_EIGHT) command.
PX4 then outputs the [FIGURE_EIGHT_EXECUTION_STATUS](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#FIGURE_EIGHT_EXECUTION_STATUS) message.

Figure 8 loitering is also available in the simulator.
You can test it in [Gazebo](../sim_gazebo_gz/index.md) using a fixed wing frame:

```sh
make px4_sitl gz_rc_cessna
```

> Note that at time of writing Figure8 loitering is not supported in QGC ([QGC##12778 Need Support Figure of eight (8 figure) loitering](https://github.com/mavlink/qgroundcontrol/issues/12778)) so you will need to trigger the operation directly via MAVLink.

Author: Note this - not yet supported in QGC:
- https://github.com/mavlink/qgroundcontrol/issues/12778

:::

## Loiter modes

### Default Loiter

The aircraft circles around the position at which the mode was triggered and maintain its current altitude.
The loiter radius is set by the parameter [NAV_LOITER_RAD](#NAV_LOITER_RAD).
Note that if the vehicle altitude is below [NAV_MIN_LTR_ALT](#NAV_MIN_LTR_ALT), it will ascend to that minimum altitude before circling.

The default loiter mode is entered when you switch to Hold mode without explicitly specifying any loiter behaviour.
For example, if you switch to Hold mode using an RC switch, select **Hold** on the QGC flight mode selector, or activate the mode using the MAVLink [MAV_CMD_DO_SET_MODE](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#MAV_CMD_DO_SET_MODE) command.

### Orbit Loiter Mode

<Badge type="tip" text="PX4 v1.12" />

The aircraft travels towards a _specified_ orbit center position, then circles it with a given direction and radius.

This behaviour can be accessed in QGroundControl by clicking on the map in Fly view, selecting **Orbit at Location**, and configuring the radius.

The behavior can be triggered using the MAVLink [MAV_CMD_DO_ORBIT](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#MAV_CMD_DO_ORBIT) command.

> Note that PX4 respects the specified centre point (`param5`, `param6`, `param7`), and the radius and direction (`param1`).

Author: @ttechnick Is there a minimum speed you can set? If you set the below this minimum is it just clamped?

:::

Figure 8 loitering is also available in the simulator.
You can test it in [Gazebo](../sim_gazebo_gz/index.md) using a fixed wing frame:

```sh
make px4_sitl gz_rc_cessna
```

## Parameters

Hold mode behaviour can be configured using the parameters below.

| Parameter                                                                                                | Description                                                                                                   |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <a id="NAV_LOITER_RAD"></a>[NAV_LOITER_RAD](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#NAV_LOITER_RAD)    | The radius of the loiter circle.                                                                              |
| <a id="NAV_MIN_LTR_ALT"></a>[NAV_MIN_LTR_ALT](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#NAV_MIN_LTR_ALT) | Minimum height for loiter mode (vehicle will ascend to this altitude if mode is engaged at a lower altitude). |

> ## MAVLink Commands

Author: FYI , this is some level of duplication. I have done this because it is useful to separate out what you can do with MAVLink in a particular mode. At some point I might expand this to explain some of the other commands that work with PX4 in hold mode.

### Orbit Loiter Mode

<Badge type="tip" text="PX4 v1.12" />

The aircraft travels towards a _specified_ orbit center position, then circles it with a given direction and radius.

This behaviour can be accessed in QGroundControl by clicking on the map in Fly view, selecting **Orbit at Location**, and configuring the radius.

The behavior can be triggered using the MAVLink [MAV_CMD_DO_ORBIT](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#MAV_CMD_DO_ORBIT) command.
Note that PX4 respects the specified centre point (`param5`, `param6`, `param7`), and the radius and direction (`param1`).
PX4 ignores `param3` (Yaw behaviour) and `param4` (Orbits).
The value of `param2` (velocity) is also ignored, but the speed can be controlled using the [MAV_CMD_DO_CHANGE_SPEED](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#MAV_CMD_DO_CHANGE_SPEED) command.
PX4 outputs orbit status using the [ORBIT_EXECUTION_STATUS](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#ORBIT_EXECUTION_STATUS) message.

### Figure 8 Loiter Mode

<Badge type="tip" text="PX4 v1.15" /> <Badge type="warning" text="Experimental" />

> The aircraft flys towards a figure 8 centre position, then follows a figure 8 path as defined by the centre position, orientation, and radius of two circles.

Author: I don't mind not being precise, but we shouldn't be wrong. I think this is still pretty clear.

```suggestion
The aircraft flys towards the closest point on a specified figure 8 path and then follows it.
The path is defined by the figure 8 centre position, orientation, and radius of two circles.
```
